# 4Cseq_analysis

Raw4C sequencing reads of wt and different Grem1 mutant samples with >=76bp weretrimmed to 76bp. To achieve an overall high quality, reads do not match theprimer sequence were discarded. Filtered reads were aligned to the mousereference genome (mouse mm10) using Bowtie v 2.2.9. To identify the validrestriction fragments, the mouse reference genome was in-silico digested usingDpnII and NlaIII. Restriction fragments that did not contain a cutting site forNlaIII or were smaller than 20bp were filtered out. This yielding the libraryof valid restriction fragments used for quantitative analysis of experimental 4C-seqdatasets. Read counts were computed for each valid fragment and the resulting4C profile visualized using the UCSC genome browser. To visualize the data,bedGraph formatted files of the read counts for each fragment or a specifiedwindow of fragments were generated. 4C‐seq contacts were analyzed forthe mouse region on chr2:113326224-113894862 that encompasses the Grem1-Fmn1 landscape. The viewpoint, adjacent undigested fragments, andfragments 10 kb up- and downstream were excluded. Finally, a range of 5informative fragments were used to normalize the data per million reads (RPM)over a sliding window using custom scripts and these continuous‐valuedprofiles displayed in the UCSC genome browser tracks were used to generate thepanels for Fig. 2f, 3g, and Extended Data Fig. 2b. The subtractionsafter normalization were calculatedby subtracting fragment reads for all positions of the locus between wild-type andmutant forelimb bud samples.
